#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= About the Toolboxes =

The toolboxes are based on Matlab code developed by Peter Corke for his [http://eprints.infodiv.unimelb.edu.au/archive/00000547/ PhD research] over the period 1990 to 1994.  

= Robotics Toolbox for MATLAB (RTB) =

==  release 9 (September 2011) ==

Significant expansion to support the [http://petercorke.com/RVC Robotics, Vision & Control] book.  Major additions include:
  * changes of class names for arm-type robots
  * mobile robot control, planning and localization
  * quadrotor control
  * improved documentation

==  release 8 (December 2008) ==

This is the first update to the toolbox since 2002.
The main features of release 8 are:
  * integration with Matlab desktop, help and demo systems
  * variants of many functions that return a rotation rather than homog. transform matrix, for instance rotx() and trotx() return a 3x3 and 4x4 matrix respectively.
  * HTML format function help documentation (generated using m2html) integrated with help browswer
  * new robot models: Motoman, ABB, Fanuc
  * rpy2r and eul2r accept trajectories
  * fix errors in Simulink demos (due to code atrophy)
  * tested with Matlab 2008b
  * some functions have been retired
  * adopt the new MATLAB classdef object syntax


== release 7 (April 2002) ==

MEX files, Simulink models and modified Denavit-Hartenberg support.  This was released to support the third edition of John Craig's textbook where the exercises made use of RTB.

== release 6 (April 2001) ==


== release 5 (April 1999) ==

First release with objects.  Before that everything was a matrix.

== release 4 (August 1996) ==

Corresponded to the article published in the IEEE Robotics & Automation magazine.



= MVTB =


==  release 3 (September 2011) ==
Significant expansion to support the [http://petercorke.com/RVC Robotics, Vision & Control] book.  Major additions include:
 * camera classes
 * feature classes
 * SIFT, SURF, graph-based segmentation, tracking, bag of words etc.


==  release 2 (2005) ==


==  release 1 (??) ==